Slide: 
- The legislation process are the gateways to important decision-making but mostly shrouded in mystery and lacking transparency. 
- The public and advocates with limited resources are unable to effectively engage in important decision making processes.
- Provide certainty to the legislative process, which can save time and resources for interested parties to monitor important issues and lower the barrier to entry for participation and impact


Slide: 
Social Listening Context 
Bag of Words / Word Counting

Data Transformation with Matrix of documents
NLP Techniques: Segmentation, Normalization, Lemmatization, Stemming, Stop words, parts of speech
Term Frequency - Inverse document frequency

Slide: 
How does the human brain recognize friend or foe? We  use relationship of features
Choose methods that provides rational way to handle many descriptive and dependent variables 
Data sets are a way to describe a problem and potential solutions
Combine data exploration with hypothesis testing and generation

Slides Appendix:
Handle many variables in a rational way — overview, diagnose, monitor, predict, classify even in complex situations. do not need to know things beforehand. Maybe start exploration without a hypothesis 
How does your brain process a face? Brain does not look individual features, i.e. nose, mouth, eyes, to recognize your friend or foe we look at the overall pattern of faces, eigenfaces
Find a way to look at pattern of features — covariance, relationship of variables (i.e. for two variables easy) applied to process monitoring and medical diagnostics. Now consider this principle applied to many more variables
All points represented in x-dimensions. represent data by one plane - least square sense - project into plane. plane will span main variation (biplot, explanation of variance and samples. two points close to each other == samples are similar in relationship to the plane; opposite == dissimilar)
 As few principle components as possible, enough to describe 80% of the data
score plot. Outlier detection. Process working well or out of control. (potentially remove outliers). at 0,0 means variable is not important. Attach manual labels to axis (- x-axis, + x-axis, - y-axis). amount of artificial latent value. 
residuals 
In addition to hypothesis testing, use data set we believe that describes a problem. Learn something new from the data. Observer empirically in the data; actually occurred. help formula questions and testing scenarios. 
Exchange sample names for colors — i.e. airport states, size of airports, econ status of country,  
Loadings will tell us why the samples are placed where they are. information about the variables. Define the plane and new coordinate system. Each is a direction in space with numbers associated (magnitude and direction) Loadings = Eigenvectors * sqrt(eigenvalues) 
PCA assume that samples are similar in nature, come from the same distribution
Calculate eigenvalues of the covariance matrix